Welcome back everyone to an introduction to neural networks.
We've seen how a single percept Trump behaves.
Now let's expand on this concept to get the idea of a neural network.
Let's see how to connect many perceptions together and then how to represent this mathematically.
So what does a multiple perceptions trends that work actually look like.
Well essentially looks like this.
Here we can see that we have various layers of single percept trons connected to each other through
their inputs and outputs.
In this case we have an input layer all the way on the left which is purple.
We have two hidden layers and hidden layers are the layers that are in between the input layer and all
the way on the right the output layer essentially hidden layers are layers that don't get to see the
outside.
That is all the way the inputs on the left or all the way the outputs on the right so input layers those
are real values from the data.
So they take in the actual data as their input.
Then you have hidden layers and those are the layers between the input and output layers.
And if you have three or more hidden layers that's considered a deep network and then an output layer
where you have some sort of final estimate of whatever the output that you're trying to estimate is.
So as you go forwards through more layers the level of abstraction increases.
Let's not discuss the activation function in a little more detail.
Previously our activation function was just a really simple function the output 0 or 1.
Remember we were just taking the some of the inputs in that simple percept Tron model and then had an
activation function that just had an output of either or one based off whether that number was positive
or negative.
And if we plotted out that looks like this we can say the output is either 0 or 1 on the y axis and
then the x axis we see our marking at zero.
And if we have a negative value we output 0 and if we have a positive value we output 1 and we did this
by having the x axis B W X plus B.
That is the weights times the inputs plus that bias.
And it's really common to just set that equal to Z.
So you can refer to Z instead of having to constantly for two W X plus B.
So whenever I say Z I'm essentially inferring to those wait times those inputs plus that bias So unfortunately
this is actually a pretty dramatic function since small changes aren't really reflected.
So you can have kind of really small changes in Z.
For instance the change from 0.5 in Zeitz 0.6 doesn't really matter it's still going to output one as
long as it's positive or the changes that are really dramatic from negative ones to negative a thousand
doesn't really matter.
It's going to be zero.
So it'd be nice if we could have a more dynamic function.
For example this red line here you can see here that our outputs now are no longer just 0 or 1.
We have a little more detail to it.
There's a little more nuance here.
So lucky for us this is actually the sigmoid function.
This red line function already exists and it's known as the sigmoid function and they said my function
is just f of x is equal to 1 over 1 plus E to the negative x and we can replace X here with Z.
So we have zees equal to W X plus be.
So we just take the whole thing that Z and plug it into the sigmoid function.
So we'd have f of Z is equal to 1 over 1 plus it's the negative Z and that would be our sigmoid function
for the activation function.
So changing the activation function used can actually be really beneficial depending on the particular
task we're trying to complete and we'll get into more detail on that later on when we actually implement
our own that works.
Let's discuss a few more activation of functions that we're going to encounter throughout this course.
So a really common function that's used as an activation function besides a Sigmond function is the
hyperbolic tangent function or 10 H or tranche of Z where Z remembers just double x plus B and that
looks really similar to the sigmoid function except that the output can then be from negative 1 to 1.
And like previously we had 0 to 1.
So if we look at the sigmoid function again that went from 0 to 1 and that was equal to 1 over 1 plus
it's a negative x or negative Z whatever the input is.
And now for the Tench or hyperbolic tangent function it goes from negative 1 to 1 but still has that
sort of same behavior shape.
And if you're interested in how to express the hyperbolic tangent mathematically over here on the right
hand side or the actual equations for it then there's also the rectified linear unit or R E L U and
this is a really common activation function but it's actually relatively simple.
And the way it works is the following method.
You basically passengers the value into this Max equation.
So you say Max of 0 or Z.
So what does that actually mean.
Well the rectified linear unit that actual activation function works the following manner.
It says they suffer z value and zero just return the maximum value.
And that actually means that if your value of z is negative then the max between 0 and any negative
number is always going to be zero.
So we can see here that is z.
If it's negative the function always returns 0.
And then between Max 0 comma Z if z is positive it's always going to return the value of z.
So essentially of just y is equal to Z here.
So on the right hand side that's where you get that sort of straight linear line.
So again relatively simple function but this is kind of considered at certain points in time state of
the art.
So we're going to definitely be seeing this activation function a lot throughout our lectures.
So as I mentioned rectified linear units and the hyperbolic tangent tend to have the best performance.
So we're really going to be focusing on these two.
Lucky for us the deep learning libraries we're working with specifically carriers already have all of
these activation functions built in.
So it's going to be just simply adding in a string code.
Are you for rectified linear unit or so on.
Now as we continue we'll also talk about some more of the state of the art activation functions and
how it can play around them.
Up next we're going to be discussing cost functions which allow us to measure how well these neurons
are actually performing.
So we're kind of halfway through the general understanding and fundamentals of deep learning.
But let's continue by talking about cost functions.
And then after that grading the sense and back propagation.